# orglinter

Lint GitHub organizations to ensure proper membership lists and configuration.

## Installation

`orglinter` is designed to be installed with npm or yarn, either globally:

```console
$ npm install -g orglinter
$ orglinter my-org-file.toml
```

Within your package:

```console
$ npm install orglinter
$ npx orglinter my-org-file.toml
```

Or if you would like to make contributions to `orglinter`, using `git` and `npm`
for local development:

```console
$ git clone git@github.com:godaddy/orglinter.git
$ cd orglinter
$ npm install
$ npm start my-org-file.toml
```

## Usage

A stub `.env.dist` file can be found for the convenience of users and developers
at the root of this project. If you copy this file to `.env` and fill in the
blanks, you should be good to go!

Running the script requires a single environment variable, which you can place
into a `.env` file for automatic ingestion: `GITHUB_TOKEN`. This must be a
personal access token generated by an existing organization owner, with the
following permissions:

* `admin:org`
* `read:user`

Once a `GITHUB_TOKEN` is ready, the script can be run by `npm start`.

By default, the tool will look for a file at `./membership.toml`. However you
can also specify a different filename on the command line such as:

```console
$ npm start my-org-file.toml

> orglinter@1.0.0 start
> node ./src/bin/cli.js
# ...
```

At the time of this writing, this script will be run manually after every change
to the membership file. In the future, this will become an automatic execution
in the CI pipeline, and will also be run on a regular basis to ensure that
undocumented memberships do not exist, and that employees who have left the
company are removed from the org.

## Org Specification

All org data is stored in [TOML] files; one file representing one GitHub org. An
example of such a file is provided as `example.toml` at the root of this project.

The relevant sections of this file are:

### [org]

This contains configuration information about the org itself. Things such as the
email address, Twitter username, and website URL. These values will all be
verified against the actual org configuration and will raise an error if they do
not match reality.

Additionally, the `login` key here is what is used to perform the actual org
lookup.

### [members]

This is the membership list for your org. The idea here is to map "internal"
usernames (such as those found in an LDAP directory) to GitHub usernames. So
assuming you have an "internal" username of `adent`, and a GitHub username of
`arthur_dent`, you would add a line to this section like:

```toml
adent = "arthur_dent"
```

You can also tie multiple GitHub usernames to a single "internal" username by
using a list. For example:

```toml
tmcmillan = ["trillian", "trillian_astra"]
```

### [[teams]]

Each `[[teams]]` section is used, for now, primarily as a means of managing the
admins of an org. In the future, this will manage actual GitHub teams. These are
written as an [array of tables]. So one team would look like:

```toml
[[teams]]
name = "Heart of Gold Crew"
default_org_role = "ADMIN"
privacy = "SECRET"
members = ["mandroid", "tmcmillan", "zbeeblebrox"]
```

Note that the `default_org_role = "ADMIN"` is what marks the members of this
team as org admins. And the names used in the `members` list are the "internal"
usernames, rather than the GitHub usernames, of the individual members. This
does have the side effect that, if an internal username is connected to multiple
GitHub usernames, as demonstrated above, all of those GitHub usernames will be
made admins of the org.

## Credits

Originally developed internally for making easier work of the management of
[GoDaddy]'s GitHub orgs. Primary authors at that time include:

* [Joey Wilhelm]
* [Rick Markins]

[TOML]: https://toml.io/
[array of tables]: https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0#array-of-tables
[GoDaddy]: https://www.godaddy.com/
[Joey Wilhelm]: https://github.com/tarkatronic/
[Rick Markins]: https://github.com/rxmarbles/
